There are several theories surrounding the collapse of the Maya civilization, and military losses have been suggested as one of the factors that contributed to the mass abandonment of cities and sites in the 9th and 10th centuries.

One theory suggests that warfare among different city-states played a major role in the collapse of the Maya civilization. Maya warfare was highly ritualized, with the aim of capturing elite members of the enemy group for use in sacrificial rituals. However, as cities grew in size and became more complex, warfare became more violent and destructive. Cities built defensive structures such as walls, ditches, and watchtowers to protect against attack, but these measures were not always effective.

Archaeological evidence suggests that warfare did occur in some areas during the Late Classic period (AD 600-900). Excavations at the site of Copán in Honduras revealed evidence of warfare, including burned buildings and human remains with signs of violence. Other sites, such as Dos Pilas and Tikal, also show evidence of conflict during this period. The violence may have been related to competition for resources such as land, water, and trade routes, as well as political power.

One of the most significant military losses in the Maya civilization occurred in AD 810, when the city of Dos Pilas was conquered by the city of Tikal. This event led to the abandonment of nearby cities such as Aguateca and Tamarindito, which were likely dependent on Dos Pilas for resources and protection. The defeat of Dos Pilas may have had a ripple effect on other cities, leading to a decline in trade and political alliances.

In addition to external conflicts, internal strife may have also contributed to the collapse of the Maya civilization. The complex political structure of the Maya city-states included powerful rulers, nobles, and commoners, all of whom competed for power and resources. Political instability and infighting may have weakened the ability of the Maya to defend against external threats.

While military losses were likely one factor in the collapse of the Maya civilization, they were likely not the only cause. Other factors such as environmental change, disease, and social upheaval likely played a role as well. However, the evidence of violence and conflict in the archaeological record suggests that warfare was a significant issue that contributed to the decline of the Maya civilization.