Each paragraph will be indented underneath the article name

Kaiser&Forenbaher 2012:
	Stalagmites hanging from the ceiling and stalagmatic crust covering surfaces, particularly when undisturbed, indicated no living thing had been there for a long period of time. Nakovana cave was an undisturbed sanctuary cave 
site. Sediment is filtered using a sieve and a high-pressure water gun. In the Nakovana cave, the sieve holes were 3mm squared and was aided with a high-pressure water gun to separate sediment and important archeological material. 
The cave mainly contained highly-structured evidence a ritual took place here. The hellenistic finewears in this cave suggested there were multiple different sources they came from. The large piece of stalagmite in the center of 
the chamber may indicate the chamber had a special importance; indeed, the chamber was used as a trading post, indicated from the greek or latin graffiti scratched onto vessels reconstructed from various fragments and scraps of
finewears and ampharoae hidden in sediment or lying on the floor. Cups, plates, pitches, and jugs were also recovered; this is consistent with the chamber being a feast area.  


Bahn & Vertut chapter 5:
	Red ochre and other colours are used to paint things. Some musical instruments have survived the Upper Paleolithic, more specifically, 30 flutes spread throughout mostly Western Europe, but some in the East. A number of 
bone or ivory, with a hole at one end, have been interpreted as 'bull-roarers', a type of instrument which makes a loud humming noise when whirled around on a string; an example of this made of Reindeer Antler is from the cave
of La Roche Lalinde. One of the first forms of aesthetic expression in the Palaeolithic was body art. Lumps of pigments from archeological sites is evidence for such body paint used. During the Neanderthal people period,
100,000 - 35,000 BC, pigments became increasing frequent in both occupation deposits and burials. Upper Paleolithic where pigments because very abundant, being transported in the tens of kilograms; over 100 sites with pigment
are known, with over 25 burials. Some of the pigments can be linked to the decoration of cave walls. Studies show that ochre was often used in the treatment of animal skins: it preserves organic tissues and protected them
from putrefaction and from vermin such as maggots. It is probably this kind of function that explains the impregnated soil in some habitation sites and the traces of red mineral on many stone tools such as scrapers. People
of the Old Stone Age may have painted their bodies for the functional purpose of ochre: to cauterise and clean injuries. Until the end of the last century, ochre was still used by country doctors in parts of Europe as an antiseptic 
in the treatment of ourulent wounds. Another function of ochre, particularly during the last Ice Age, was the maintain bodily warmth and ward off the effects of cold and rain. In North American indian tribes, a miture of red ochre
and fat was often applied to the cheeks of women and children as a hygienic measure to protect their skins against the sun and dry winds; while in other parts of the world red paint used as a protection against mosquitoes, flies and
other disease-carriers. The medical properties of ochre may have led to the painting of the dead or dying, as was commonly done by certain tribes in the New World. In Palaeolithic cases, it is often difficult to tell whether
a body had its flesh painted or merely the bones. Fossils, shells, teeth which have been incised, sawn, or perforated are considered jewellery. The Mousterian period preceeded the Upper Palaeolithic period; this includes jewellery
as described previously, and thus can be attributed to as early as the Neanderthals. The earliest phase of the French Upper Paleolithic has yielded a few more examples: the best known as those from the cave of Arcy-sur-Cure (Yonne).
This cave also contained a Neanderthal tooth and skeleton. A layer at Arcy, representing the Aurignacian from 30,000 BC, has material which features the same techniques, clearly drawing on what had been developing for
millenia: perforated fossils, a bone pendant with a wide carved hole, and so forth. Over 50 perforated fox canines were found in Kostenki XVII (USSR) and are dated to 32,000 years ago, while 150 covered the head of the child
buried beside Kostenki XV. The popularity of canine teeth continued until the end of the Upper Paleolithic. Sawing reindeer incisors is already present at the Chatelperronian period at Arcy. Only a few species of shells were
selected for decoration: globular gastropods which could easily be sewn to clothing; long forms which could be easily strung; and a few scallops. 

	The engraving of a bear on a pebble from the cave of Massat was one of the first pieces of Palaeolithic portable art authenticated. Incised slabs are mostly either sandstone, limestone, slate, or stalagmite. In many cases,
incisions on stone are sometimes deep and clear, but in many cases so fine that they are almost invisible. Alexander Marshack pioneered the 'technological reading' of Paleolithic images; his studies of engraved stone, bone and 
antler under the microscope have enabled him to follow the mechanics, micromorphology, and 'ballistic trace' of each incision. In some caves, the upper face of a plaquette lying on the surface becomes coated with a deposit
of clay or calcite and needs to be washed or treated with acid before the engravings underneath become visible. Continue from page 10 of 47


How the molecular clock works: https://humanorigins.si.edu/evidence/dating
February 11, 2023 - An evolutionary timeline of homo sapiens; scientists pinpoint key moments in the rise of our species:
	Sahelanthropus began the slow transition from ape-like movement onto 2 legs some six million years ago. As time went on, their bodies, brains, and their ability to think changed, as seen in their invention and use of tools
and technologies. The unique genetic makeup of modern humans is because of climate-driven changes to African landscape, causing intermittent mixing and swapping of everything from genes to tool techniques. At the bottom of a
cave in Spain's Atapuerca Mountains, scientists were able to flesh out a partial genome sequence from 430,000 year old bone remains th reveal that the humans were the earliest known Neanderthals. Even though fossils are the
most effective way for scientists to study the physical remains of ancient people and civilsations, bones and teeth are still subject to a significant amount of interpretation. All fossils before about 40,000 to 100,000 years ago
contain different combinations of archaic and modern features. Fossil records are not linear in that they did not show a singular point in time where all people were modern humans. A very modern human skull fossil found was
195,000 years old, while a very archaic and ancient looking skull was only 13,000 years old. 
	
	In the middle stone age some 300,000 years ago, finely crafted tools with flaked points were first created; they were attached to handles and spear shafts to greatly improve hunting prowess. 



A journey to the oldest cave paintings in the world:
	The world's very first picture was likely a ghostly babirusa painting at 34,400 years old; the painting was figurative art found in the cave of Leang Timpuseng. Higher-order consciousness is the ability to think and plan for
the future, and to remember and learn from our past. Intellectual breakthroughs in human evolution such as tool making were mastered by hominin species more than a million years ago. The oldest cave art in Europe are the lions and
rhinos of Chauvet Cave, commonly thought to be between 30,000 and 32,000 years old. Additionally, mammoth-ivory figures found in Germany are around the same age. We can not conceieve of art, or the value of it, until we had
higher order thinking. South Africa pigment ochre was found used 164,000 years ago. Evidence of jewellery and chunks of ocher with various zigzag and other designs indicates the capacity for art was present before humans left
Africa. By constrast to the random cave paintings and drawings, the cave paintings in Europe represent a consistent tradition. Ocher is a form of iron oxide used frequently in ancient cave paintings. You can date rocks by 
measuring the amount of radioative uranium present; generally the uranium is present only in trace amounts. Uranium decays into thorium at an unknown rate, so comparing the ratio of these two elements in a sample reveals its age. 
The greater the proportion of thorium, the older the sample. A hand stencil with a minimum age of 39,900 years is the oldest known stencil anywhere at Leang Timpuseng, just 900 years shy of the world's oldest known cave
painting of any kind, a simple red disk at El Castillo. Prehistoric art did not arise in Europe. Art did not start in one central location, but rather in many places in Asia after modern humans travelled to various locations
after leaving Africa; art and simple hand stenciles were not common in Africa: perhaps people there were using primarily body art. It is suggested that painting naturalistic animals is part of a shared hunter-gatherer practice
rather than a tradition of any particular culture. French anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss argued in 1962 that primitive people chose to identify with and represent animals because they were good to think. Rocks in various caves
forms a silica skin which can be dated. Sandstone and limestone sites can be investigated for samples. In Africa, the very first art may have been because of spiritual beliefs. Rhino Cave in Botswana is where Archealogists
have found evidence that 65,000 to 70,000 years ago, people carefully made spearheads by burning or smashing them in front of a large rock panel carved with hundreds of circular holes. 




America in the beginning:
	Clovis points have been thought to have been made by the first people to inhabit the Americas. Land bridge from Siberia to Alaska (Beringia), allowed hunter-gatherers to travel to the Americas from Asia through an
ice-free corridor between the ice sheets that covered most of the Americas. There were already humans in the Americas by the time Beringia was travelled and clovis points were created. A new theory suggests 20,000+ years ago
travellers used boats over large bodies of water. Meadowcraft Rockshelter is the longest-occupied site in the Americas; people began camping there as early as 16,000 years ago and continued visiting the shelter until the
thirteenth century ad. A roof collapse 13,000 to 14,000 years ago trapped beneath it a wealth of material uncovered in excavations. Monte Verde was a popular 'Holiday Inn' in the Americas upwards of 20,000 years ago. 
Stone tools and fire features are always great indicators of human activity at an archaeological site. Additionally, human bones are the best evidence excavators can hope to find because of their durability and persistence. 
Because of the extremely dry environment inside Oregon's Paisley Caves, human feces and other delicate fossils have been discovered which dated to older than 14,000 years. Very low humidity helps destroy biological substances 
which can break down the fossil, very high humidity helps facilitate the growth of biological microbes which destroy the fossils. The Gault cave site in the Americas contains ancient tools. Tools here were used mainly to process
carcasses and plants. Dating purified collagen in the bones of animals is a good way to determine the date of something. 


