IA-32 Processor Architecture:
	Modes of operation:
		Protected mode:
			Native mode (Linux, Windows)
		
		If a program is restricted by the operating system or computer. The program is restricted to addressing a specific contiguous area of memory. There are levels of privilege for each computer component on what memory
		resources they can access. 
		
		Real-address mode:
			Native MS-DOS

			Implements the programming environment. Useful for when program needs you to access memory and hardware devices, and is current version of Windows. 

		System management mode:
			Power management, system security, diagnostics

			Implements various pre-defined functions for the operating system. All requirements are considered 
		Virtual-8086 mode
			Hybrid of protected
			Each program has its own 8086 computer

			Virtual memory location for each program; each memory location is 1 megabyte in size. If the program crashes or if the program crashes, the entire system will not crash. 


	Basic execution environment:
		We need to know how additional memory modes are working, and how they are based on registers and how the registers work together with the processer. What is the meaning of the registers and the different flags. 
		Addressable memory: If we have 10 bits, we would have 2^10 different memory locations which are addressable (1024). If we have 10 bits, we can provide a 1 kb memory location. 
		Protected mode: Able to provide 4 gb of memory based on 32-bit addresses. 
		Real-address and Virtual-8086 modes provides 1 MB of space based on 20-bit addresses.

	General-purpose registers:
		Named storage locations inside the CPU, optimized for speed
			32-bit general-purpose registers:
				EAX				EBP
				EBX				ESP
				ECX				ESI
				EDX				EDI
				EFLAGS
				EIP
	
			16-bit segment registers:
				CS
				ES
				SS
				FS
				DS
				

	Accessing parts of registers:
		Use 8, 16, or 32-bit name
		Applies to EAX, EBX, ECX, and EDX
		You have to use specific registers listed when storing some amount of data. For example, you must use EAX if you want to store some data that is 32-bits in size. 
		You cannot use 32-bit or 16-bit registers with 8-bit operation mode. 


		Specialized register uses:
			General purpose:
				EAX - Automatically used by multiplication and division operations; accumulator
				ECX - Loop counter for any repeating operations. 
				ESP - Stack pointer. You have to manually move the stack pointer value. 
				ESI and EDI - Index registers when you want to store the source and destination register or memory location in a stack, for example.
				EBP - Extended frame pointer to reference some function parameters in a local variable stack. Should not be used for any particular data operation.

			Segment:
				Should be used when holding program structure data / code
				CS - Code segment
				DS - Data segment
				SS - Stack segment
				ES, FS, GS - Additional segments
				EIP - Instruction pointer			- Pointing to the next instruction which needs to be executed by the CPU. 

			Eflags:
				Status and control flags
				Each flag is a single binary bit

	

	Status flags:
		Carry: Set when the result of some signed operation is too large to fit into the destination register when some operation executed in the source registers. 
		Overflow: Set when the result of some operation results in unsigned arithmetic too large to fit into the destination register
		Sign: Set when the result of an operation is negative
		Zero: Set when the resultant operation is zero
		Auxiliary carry: 
		Parity flag: Set when the significant byte in the results contain an even number of long bits. 

	
	Floating-point, MMX, XMM registers:
		Eight 80-bit floating-point data registers used for floating point arithmetic
			ST(0), ST(1), ... ,ST(7)
			arranged in a stack
			Used for all floating-point arithmetic. 
		Eight 64-bit MMX registers
		Eight 128-bit XMM registers for single-instruction multiple-data (SIMD) operations. 


	
	IA-32 memory management:
		Real-address mode: 1 mb ram maximum addressable from hexadecimal 00000 to FFFFF. Application programs can access any area of memory, and each block of memory used corresponds to a real location in memory. 
		Calculating linear address: In real-address mode, the linear address is 20 bits. Given a segment address, multiply it by 16 and add it to the offset. Linear address is one generated by a program. 
		Protected mode: A program will only be allowed to access memory that is assigned for use by that specific program. 
		Multi-segment mode:
		Paging: The mechanism that converts a linear address accessible by the CPU to a physical address that the memory management unit can use to access physical memory. 


		Protected mode:
			4 gb addressable RAM
			00000000 to FFFFFFFFh . h indicates the value we have is hexadecimal. 
			Each program is assigned a memory partition which is protected from the other programs. If some program is running, we do not want the operating system to execute some other process in that memory partition.
			Designed for multitasking and is supported by Windows and Linux. 

		
		
		64-bit processors:
			The instruction set is the 64-bit extension of the x86-64 instruction set. 

		
		Components of an IA-32 microcomputer:
			Motherboard, Video output, Memory, Input-Output ports. 