The Upper Paleolithic continued:
	Pincevent an open air Upper Paleolithic site in France. Site contained a collection of bones and stones. Remains of a fireplace; the bones are likely food remains. Patterns of bones show food sharing between various tents
	in various tents. 
	South Russian Plain were base camps of mammoth-bone huts. These huts were often places on bluffs overlooking plains.
	Prey were reindeer, mammoth, bison, horse, and red deer. Hunted during the upper paleolithic. 

	
	Hunting herds:
		Diversity of mammals declined because of climate stress in Europe. 
		Led to reliance on reindeer in western Europe and meant lower population densities for humans. Humans had to be relatively mobile herds of moving animals were hunted, and humans had to move along with them.

		Reindeer herds were the preferred pray; horses were an alternative. The difference likely reflects relative abundances of the two animals in geographically different regions. 
	

	Grasses 14,000+ years ago used for bedding or teas. Wild pansy, rosemarry, raspberry, etc. 
	Movement of raw materials reflects the presence of long-distance exchange networks. Long distance expeditions undertaken were to get specific kinds of material. 
	Amber from Kiev was used to make beads and pendants. 
		
	Personal ornaments including beads made from shells, teeth and ivory were created. Ornaments and their geographic distributions show non-overlapping zones. Ornament types showed patetrns of at least 3 concentrations of
	ones with shared attributes in different geographical regions, mostly in modern day France, Europe, and modern day Italy. 

	Questions arise about social inequality because some burials are found with rich ornaments. Burials of young children with a lot of objects indicates some were born with high statuses. All burials have
	fluctating levels and quality of ornaments. Each bead found on a skeleton represent 'wealth'. Because the beads took at least an hour individually, the amount of beads can indicate high wealth because of the
	amount of labour needed to create all of those beads.

	Triple burial at Dolni Vestonice, Czech Republic. The head of the male on the right is smashed in; the male on the left has a piece of wood piercing his pelvis. They were covered with spruce branches
	and red ochre was sprinkled on their heads and ground around them. Why? Come to your own conclusion. 

	At the same site, an old woman was buried holding a fox. The biological anthroplogists noted many biological deformoties to her face. 
	Lady of saint-germain-la riviere burial with deer and reindeer antlers and bison horns. The beads are of non-local red deer teeth, representing 63 animals. This shows a wealthy person; the privileged acquisition of non-local
	material showing countless hours of labor. This indicates the person buried is special. 

	
	Why bury wealth?:
		Grave goods really show the differential in statuses between people. 

		After-life beliefs:
			The alive people maintaining the dead person in the afterlife. 
		Inheritance:
			People who were close to the dead person place some valuable material as some condolences.
		Wealth destruction (Demonstration or assertion of status):
			Can destroy wealth as a demonstration of their power or status. 
		Keeping wealth out of everyone's hands:
		Demonstration or assertion of status:

	
	Archaeologists view of past people often thought of individuals as male or ungendered blobs. However, recent archeological inquiry has changed that way of thinking to have Ice Age woman doing similar tasks as men. 
	Artworks with more prominet fat deposits on the hips, buttocks, and bellies were found closer to glaciers. The farther away a population lived from an ice mass, the more proportions decreased. 



Upper Paleolithic arts:
	One of the most elementary categories of art is body art. Older art in caves and such are depictions of scenarios, animals, etc. The example shown in class was a small buffalo surrounded by 6 humanoid figures. 
	The carved nude figure is missing its head and arms, but the hips, pubic mound, and legs are well defined. These types of figures were known as Venus impudique because of many depictions of women 
	in history were nude. 
	The oldest venus figure was found in the cave in southern Germany 35,000 years ago. Hothe cave?
	Mammoth ivory found at 34,000 years old. Hohlenstein-Stadel cave in Germany. This figure had a lion head, but a human body. This may be hunters who would disguise as animals, or a god that could transform into an animal.

	Categories of 'art' in the Upper Palaeolithic:
		Parietal art: depictions on cave walls
			Engravings, Drawings, Paintings
		Bas-erlief and modeling
		Portable art
			Figurines
			Ornaments


		
		In some places, animals are made out of fine-grained Earth material, spelled ess. 
	
		Using the term 'art' is problematic because in Western society we tend to have a particular set of characteristics and images that qualify as art
		Art, however, is a historical category of our own cultural tradition and not many other cultures have this concept. 
		Upper Paleolothic did not have these notations. Cave arts is a universal language because it speaks to widely-believed cultures among societies. 

		The site of Lascaux in France is discovered by 15-year-old Jacques Marshal in 1940. The discoveres of the caves did anthroplogy studies on the cave. The explorers of the cave found a circular chamber with 
		an upper area on the ceiling decorated with the paintings of animals. Paintings were over 2 meters long. The public was banned from the cave because they carried bacteria and viruses that attacked the paintings.
		Stencilling was an invention in The Upper Paleolithic. Pointillism is where images are drawn using points, or dots. Scaffolds were built to reach the ceiling to draw those paintings; we know this because scaffoling
		markings were engraved in the ground. They invented the very idea of an image. 


Chauvet cave (oldest upper palaeolithic cave art in Europe). 

		